Pubdash: Adds docs for pubdash email sharing feature (#64563)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/dashboards/dashboard-public/index.md

The link no longer works. You must create a new public URL as in [Make a dashboard public](#make-a-dashboard-public).

> ## Email Sharing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Email sharing
```

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Pro and Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud).

> Email sharing allows you to share your public dashboard with only specific people via email, instead of having it accessible to anyone with the url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Email sharing allows you to share your public dashboard with only specific people via email, instead of having it accessible to anyone with the URL.
```

> ### Enable email sharing

Reviewer: I'm pretty sure this is covered earlier on the page [here](https://github.com/grafana/grafana/pull/64563/files#diff-3bc9469fa6aac8a43ec0ac831c6e29aed45b576173df43383fc8737431adac22L26)

> ### Enable email sharing

Author: agree, I think it's implied already

> > **Note:** For Grafana Cloud, you will need to contact support to have the feature enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.
```

Add the `publicDashboardsEmailSharing` feature toggle to your `custom.ini` file.

```
[feature_toggles]
publicDashboardsEmailSharing = true
```

> ### Inviting a viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Invite a viewer
```

> 1. Click **Only specified people**.
> 2. Enter the email you want to share the public dashboard with.
> 3. Click **Invite**.
> 4. They will receive an email with a one-time use link. This link must be used within **1 hour** or it will be considered expired. Once the link is used, it will give the viewer access to the public dashboard for **30 days**.

Reviewer: How do you get to step 1 from the dashboard's normal view state? We're missing a couple preliminary steps here. 

```suggestion
1. Click **Only specified people**.
1. Enter the email you want to share the public dashboard with.
1. Click **Invite**.
1. The recipient(s) will receive an email with a one-time use link. This link must be used within **one hour** or it expires. Once the link is used, the viewer has access to the public dashboard for **30 days**.
```

Author: Right, I'll add that. The steps for other pubdash actions above have it.

I was wondering why the number list was all 1's in other places. What's the point of that?

Reviewer: > Right, I'll add that. The steps for other pubdash actions above have it.
> 
> I was wondering why the number list was all 1's in other places. What's the point of that?

using the 1. method basically eliminates human error in numbering and allows you to really easily add in new steps anywhere in a task without having to re-number everything. basically it's like letting markdown do some formatting for you rather than doing it manually.

### Viewers requesting access

> If a viewer without access tries to navigate to the public dashboard, they will be asked to request access by providing their email. They will receive an email with a new one-time use link if the email they provided has already been invited to view the public dashboard and has not been revoked.

Reviewer: What happens if they don't have an already invited email that hasn't been revoked? Is there an approval process?

```suggestion
If a viewer without access tries to navigate to the public dashboard, they will be asked to request access by providing their email. They'll receive an email with a new one-time use link if the email they provided has already been invited to view the public dashboard and has not been revoked.
```

> ### Revoking access for a viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Revoke access for a viewer
```

> 1. Click **revoke** on the viewer you'd like to revoke access for.
> 2. This will immediately prevent the user from accessing the public dashboard or using any existing one-time use links they may have.

Reviewer: A few things here:

- Same thing as above, we want to add in the preliminary steps. 
- Is "revoke" lower case in the UI? 
- I've also made a small change to avoid repetition. 
- I've removed step 2 from the steps because it's not a step the user takes, but an outcome of a steps they've taken.
- 

```suggestion
1. Click **revoke** on the viewer you'd like to remove access for.

Immediately, the user no longer has access to the public dashboard, nor can they use any existing one-time use links they may have.
```

Reviewer 2: Revoke and Resend are both uppercase
<img width="726" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20256983/224311958-b8e8c77f-db90-4635-8da0-694102c7e270.png">

> ### Resharing access for a viewer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Renew access for a viewer
```

Reviewer 2: I'm curious about why change `Reshare` by `Renew`, we don't use it in other places. I think `Renew` could imply something different.

Reviewer: I was trying to avoid some awkward wording, but if "renew" could imply something different, then we should change it. Perhaps, since this is the word we use for first giving a person access:
```suggestion
### Reinvite a viewer
```

> 1. Click **Resend** on the viewer you'd like to reshare the public dashboard with.
> 2. This viewer will receive an email with a new one-time use link. This will invalidate all previously issued links for that viewer.

Reviewer: Add prelim steps
```suggestion
1. Click **Resend** on the viewer you'd like to re-share the public dashboard with.
1. The viewer will receive an email with a new one-time use link. This will invalidate all previously issued links for that viewer.
```

### Access limitations

> One-time use links utilize browser cookies, so when a viewer is granted access via a one-time use link, they will only have access through the browser they used to claim the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One-time use links use browser cookies, so when a viewer is granted access via one of these links, they only have access through the browser they used to claim the link.
```

> A single viewer cannot generate multiple valid one-time use links. When a user gets a new one-time use link issued, all previous ones are invalidated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A single viewer cannot generate multiple valid one-time use links. When a new one-time use link is issued for a user, all previous ones are invalidated.
```

Author: Going to change to `is issued for a viewer`. I think its important to differentiate between users and viewers

> If a Grafana user has read access to the parent dashboard, they can view the public dashboard without needing to be granted access to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a Grafana user has read access to the parent dashboard, they can view the public dashboard without needing to have access granted.
```

> ## Supported datasources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported data sources
```

Reviewer: With regard to "one-time use link" vs "magic link", whatever we use, it should be consistent in the error messages and in the docs. I'm kinda thinking that in the error messages, we could even drop the word "magic" from those messages and then it would line up with what we have in the docs. I don't feel strongly about which one we use (though I'll check with my team if there's any overall preference), as long as we use the term everywhere the user can see it.

Reviewer: @Ijin08 - Can you weigh in on the "one-time use link" vs "magic link" question? Is there a UX preference in terms of how we talk about this in the app/docs?

Reviewer: Update: after some discussion, preference from docs team is "one-time use link" so no change to these docs, but I think we should update some of the error message text to match. Instead of "This magic link has expired" just "This link has expired." But will wait for @Ijin08 to add his thoughts.

Reviewer 2: +1 to one-time link, the "magic" thing about magic link could be confusing.

Reviewer 2: We use mostly use `datasources` instead of `data sources`. Should we change all? Not sure how we are using this word in other doc places but in public dashboards at least it's always `datasources`.

Reviewer: > We use mostly use `datasources` instead of `data sources`. Should we change all? Not sure how we are using this word in other doc places but in public dashboards at least it's always `datasources`.

Yeah, definitely change it to "data sources". It's two words in the application and in the [docs on the topic](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/).

Author: > 

RIP all our code

Author: > +1 to one-time link, the "magic" thing about magic link could be confusing.

RIP all our code

The link no longer works. You must create a new public URL as in [Make a dashboard public](#make-a-dashboard-public).

## Email sharing

> **Note:** Available in [Grafana Enterprise]({{< relref "../../introduction/grafana-enterprise/" >}}) and [Grafana Cloud Pro and Advanced](/docs/grafana-cloud).

Email sharing allows you to share your public dashboard with only specific people via email, instead of having it accessible to anyone with the URL.

### Enable email sharing

> **Note:** For Grafana Cloud, contact support to have the feature enabled.

Add the `publicDashboardsEmailSharing` feature toggle to your `custom.ini` file.

```
[feature_toggles]
publicDashboardsEmailSharing = true
```

### Invite a viewer

1. Click the sharing icon to the right of the dashboard title.
1. Click the **Public dashboard** tab.
1. Click **Only specified people**.
1. Enter the email you want to share the public dashboard with.
1. Click **Invite**.

> 1. The recipient(s) will receive an email with a one-time use link. This link must be used within **one hour** or it expires. Once the link is used, viewer has access to the public dashboard for **30 days**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The recipient(s) will receive an email with a one-time use link. This link must be used within **one hour** or it expires. Once the link is used, the viewer has access to the public dashboard for **30 days**.
```

### Viewers requesting access

> If a viewer without access tries to navigate to the public dashboard, they'll be asked to request access by providing their email. They will receive an email with a new one-time use link if the email they provided has already been invited to view the public dashboard and has not been revoked.

Reviewer: What happens to the request if you haven't already given them access?

Author: Nothing happens. They don't get an email or any notification that it hasn't been shared with them. This is intentional though. We don't want unwanted people trying to probe for which emails have access.

Maybe we should show a message after they request access saying "You'll receive an email with a link if you're allowed to view this dashboard", or something along those lines.

Reviewer: Does the dashboard owner get a notification of any kind?

Author: Not at this point. It would be a nice feature to have, but wasn't in the cards for the V1 of this feature. I imagine it will happen later though.

Author: @evictorero @juanicabanas

Reviewer: It might be worth saying that explicitly.
